# rex_ws

Web server plus example PAL controller using UCB1. All instructions are given relative to the root directory of this project.

# generating content

The workloads in this repository are designed to operate with a set of included content. You may wish to provide your own workloads and content beyond this. To use this included workloads, the repository contains a bast list of "htdocs" content which must be expanded into a full set by using a generator program.

Command prompt 1:

    cd web_server/htdocs/
    dnc .
    dana GenerateContent.o


# ground truth

This repository contains a web server with multiple possible configurations; a simple single-threaded client program to generate a workload for that web server; and a learning controller which uses a reinforcement learning algorithm and the PAL framework to control the current composition of the web server.

To establish ground truth results for all workloads, you'll need two command prompts, as follows:

Command prompt 1:

    cd web_server
    dnc .
    dana pal.rest WebServer.o

Command prompt 2:

    dnc ground_truth
    dana ground_truth.Analysis

This will display which webserver design alternative appears to be best under each workload.


# machine learning

To run a machine learning experiment, you'll need three command prompts, as follows:

Command prompt 1:

    cd web_server
    dnc .
    dana pal.rest WebServer.o

Command prompt 2:

    dnc learning
    dana learning.Agent

Command prompt 3:

    dnc client
    dana client.Cycle

To adjust how machine learning works (for example changing a classifier), you need to edit learning/Learning.dn and re-compile it.

You can compare your machine learning agent's behaviour under each workload against your ground truth, to study how far from the ideal choice your system currently is (a metric sometimes known as "regret").


# editing perception data

Perception data, including reward information and environment characteristic data, is generated by the components in the "http" package of the web_server. You may wish to change how this data is generated in order to experiment with alternative classification methods.

The system currently emits environment characteristics as "events" in the perception data structure. You may also like to capture a raw "trace", however, using the addTrace() function of the Perception API, with corresponding trace extraction in the learning agent via the PerceptionData.trace member.

An example trace injection in HTTPHandler.dn might be simply:

perception.addTrace("$(ic.getMS()),$(httpMessage.resource)")


# integrating with other languages

The adaptive controller uses a REST-based API, allowing you to connect to it using other programming languages.

The REST endpoint is hosted at localhost:8008 and has a set of functions to get the configuration list, adapt the system, and get perception data.
